1. Your First Day
Welcome! This guide will walk you through setting up your developer environment and understanding our workflows.

1.1 Access & Accounts
By now, you should have received invitations to the following systems. Please log in and set them up:

Email/GSuite: Your [company]@company.com account.

GitHub: Our code repositories. Please enable Two-Factor Authentication (2FA).

Jira: Our project management and issue tracker.

Slack: Our primary tool for internal communication.

[HR Portal Name]: For payroll and leave requests.

[Password Manager]: (e.g., 1Password/Vault) for sharing secure credentials.

1.2 Your Support Network
Your Manager: Will discuss your role, 30-60-90 day goals, and team structure.

Your Onboarding Buddy: [Buddy Name] will be your go-to person for informal questions and help navigating the codebase.

2. Development Environment Setup
2.1 Core Tools
Please ensure you have the following tools installed on your machine:

Git (latest version)

VS Code (our recommended IDE, with extensions: Prettier, ESLint, Python)

Docker Desktop (essential for running our services)

Postman or Insomnia (for API testing)

2.2 Getting the Code
Clone the main repository: This is our primary monorepo for all core services.

Bash

git clone https://github.com/company/main-service
Navigate into the directory: cd main-service

2.3 Installing Dependencies
Our stack is a mix of Python (backend) and Node.js (frontend).

Install project dependencies: Run the following command from the root directory.

Bash

npm install && pip install -r requirements.txt
npm install builds our React-based frontend.

pip install builds our Python-based microservices.

2.4 Environment Variables
We do not commit credentials to Git.

Set up environment variables: You will find a file named .env.example.

Copy this file: cp .env.example .env

Contact your manager or Onboarding Buddy to get the shared .env config file values from our password manager.

Populate your local .env file with these keys (database passwords, API keys, etc.).

2.5 Running the Stack Locally
Use Docker to run services locally: We use Docker Compose to spin up the entire ecosystem (all services, databases, and a local mail server).

Bash

docker-compose up --build
The --build flag forces a rebuild of the images, which is good for the first run. In the future, docker-compose up is often sufficient.

Once running, you can access the frontend at http://localhost:3000 and the API Gateway at http://localhost:8000.

3. Our Workflow: Your First Ticket
Find your first "good first issue" ticket assigned to you in Jira.

Create a feature branch from the develop branch.

Branch Name: feature/JIRA-123-short-description

Make your code changes.

Submit code changes via Pull Requests (PRs) for review.

In your PR description, link to the Jira ticket.

Tag your Onboarding Buddy and Tech Lead as reviewers.

Wait for CI/CD checks to pass and for at least one approval.

Once approved, you will "Squash and Merge" your PR into develop.